Letter from Joseph Lord Author(s): Joseph Lord Source:  The South Carolina
Historical and Genealogical Magazine,  Vob 21, No. 2 (Apr., 1920), pp. 50-51 Published by: South Carolina Historical Society Stable URL: http: //www.jstor.org/stable/27569520 Accessed: 12/05/2014 17:54

LETTER FROM JOSEPH LORD
The letter given below should have preceded those appearing in the last number
of this Magazine; it was not available when that issue was printed. Being
addressed to James Petiver, it settles the question as to whom the other
letters were addressed. Petiver contributed to  Philosophical Transactions,
May, 1705 (no. 299, vol. 24, p. 1951) "An Account of Animals and Shells sent
from Carolina to Mr. James Petiver, F. R. S.;" most of the shells, he states,
were received from "Madam Williams, a Gentlewoman." He also mentions several
other people, either Carolinians, or having touch with that Province, such as
Major Halstead; Mrs. Danson, daughter of Mr. John Archdale; Mr. Edmund Bohun,
and "my curious Friend Mr. Job [sic] Lord;" but Madam Williams was the most
frequent donor, and mention is made of reptiles, lizards and insects lately sent by her.
(See the January issue of this  Magazine.)
LETTER FROM
Joseph Lord to
JAMES PETIVER.
1705
[Sloane MSS. 4046, f. 69]
"Worthy Sir,
Altho I have received no line from your self, since you sent the first & secd.
Decads of your. Gazophylacium[1] &c. yet there being a vessel bound for
London, I send a Box of Collections, most of which are of last year. As to the
Plants, I have, as I use, wrapped papers about them but there are some things
which have no papers; as a piece of red earth, often found where trees have
been turned up by the roots; two arrow-heads, made by the Indians, of a sort
of Flint, to make their arrows do more execution; a shell or two which I found
upon the Land; such a case-worm as that of Mr. Bohun,[2] on the twig of a
Percimmon tree (which I have found also upon Oak, Apple, & (I think)
Chinquepine trees): & perhaps there may be  
more without Papers which I have forgot. My friend Mr. Pinkney,[3] to whom I
desired you to direct your letters that you sent to me is dead, by which means
I am at some loss, at present, how to get any thing sent to you, liveing my
self at so great a distance from Charlstown, & haveing little or no
acquaintance with any Sea fareing men that use to go to London. I have but
little skill in natural Production, & have very few advantages to increase my
skill (Books of that nature not being here to be bought,  &  Gerrards [4]
Herbal, which I had borrowed, & was the only considerable help I had to get
such skill by being called for by the owner) & by that means I am not capable
of ranking them under their Proper Heads; which make me so often desire
Information from your self what such & such plants be, & of what nature (tho',
perhaps, sometimes such as are commonly known with you ) & whether it be such
a Plant. There is a book, which what I have read concerning it makes me
greatly to desire, tho' I know not of what bulk it is; & that is Butler of
Bees;[5] which if you can get for me you will greatly oblige
LETTER  PROM  JOSEPH LORD
Your Servant to Command
Joseph Lord."

[Endorsed at side:] "Dorchester in Carolina
"Recd.  July 30 1705." Apr. 10, 1705"

"I set  [sic]  a letter & a box of collections last year, about the end of April or beginning of May." 

[Addressed] 
"To
Mr. James Petiver, Apothecary to the Chartreux, &
fellow of the Royal Society, in Alders-gate-Street,
London,
Deliver &c."
[a postmark "iv/30"
[3] Thomas Pinckney, father of Charles, the chief justice, and of Major William Pinckney.
[4] John Gerard, surgeon and famous herbalist; born in Cheshire, 1545, died 1612.  The Herbal, or General History o f Plants,. . . .  with cuts. London, 1597 folio; second edition published by Dr. Thomas Johnson, London, 1633f, with corrections and additions; reprinted London 1636.  (Dict. Jtfat. Biog.)
i Charles Butler, vicar of Wotton, in Hampshire, 1559 — 1647.  Feminie Monarchyi The History of Bees, and the due ordering of them.  Oxon. 1609 t octavo. London, 1625. Oxon. 1634. quarto. In Latin, by Richardson, under the title of  Monarchia Feminina, siva Apuim, Historia.  Lond. 1673, 8' 1690
) 12'.
This content downloaded from 10S.213.192.130 on Mon, 12 May 2014 17ti4 44 PM
All use subject to  JSTOR Terms and Conditions

[1] James Petiver, died 1718.  _Gazophylacii Naturae et Artis_.  London,
1702-1709. folio, in ten decades. (_Dict. Nat. Biog._) 
[2]Edmund Bohun, eldest son of Edmund Bohun, the chief justice of South
Carolina. He was in Sala as late as April, 1701. (_Diary and Autobiography of
Edmund Bohun, Esq._ privately printed, 1853, pp. xxv-xxvii.)
