# A Letter from Joseph Lord, 1706

> From _The New England Historical and Genealogical Register_, Volume 13, 1859 . New England Historic Genealogical Society. (1859), pp.299–300.

> Copy of a letter form Rev. Josphe Lord to Judge Samuel Sewall, of Boston, from the original in possession of the New England Historic-Genealogical Society.

Honoured Sir,

This comes with thanks for the Letter I received from you, bearing Date, Feb. 6th 1705/6, & for the Prints you sent me; all which I have recieved, except the Elegy _in Obitum Crucis_, which I cannot find among the other Papers, The books intitled, _Baptistes_, I suppose to be exceeding usefull for the recovery and settlment of such as are wavering in that point. Mr. Adams being in Charlestown when I received them of Capt. Belcher, I delivered those which our Honor so ordered to him presently; and soon heard, an enquiry after those books concerning Baptism was made by some that had been staggering, who saw some of them that I had delivered to him, which has occasioned the Dispersion of almost half the Hundred already. Mr. Adams is comeing to N. England with Capt. Everton, by whom your Honor will understand something of the state of affairs here; wich seem not near so encourageing to me, as they did six years ago. It is true the Countrey is more frequented by way of Trade than formerly; but our Tarr and Rice take up so much room, that a Cargo of Barbadoes Commodities (and of the commodities of some other places) is worth so much more than a Cargo of ours, that our Trade is like to leave the countrey moneyless. We have been favoured by God's Providence beyond expectation in our freedom from annoyance by the Spaniards, especially considering we, so soon after the Proclamation of War, began with them: and the freedom I think the most ground of encouragement to expect the carrying on of the work of Christ in these ends of the Earth (next to the Promise of the Father) that I can take notice of. For why should Christ give us (an undeserving as well as a much exposed people) so much peace in a time of war, if he ho work to be carried on here? We have no reason to suppose it is because we are less sinfull than others. The means of our Safety, are, partly, the Indians that dwell about Wanchessy Creek, who are the most of them, such as have formerly left the Spaniards, and are great enemies to them, but friends to the English; but among them are some Westoes, which, in all probablity, are a remnant of the Pequods, that escaped, when the Rest were destroyed in N. England. These Indian, since was has been proclaimed, have no ceased to moset the Spaniards and Spanish Indians. For joining wiht the Svanas (supposed by some to be a remnant of the Narragansetts) we came into these parts about five and twenty or thirty years ago, and the Ammesees(a People that fled from the Spaniards about St. Augustine (I cannot tell how long it is since) and came to dwell near to the English, as counting them better neighbors than the Spaniards have made divers inroads upon the Indians that remain among the Spaniards, and taken many Prisoners and also killed many and some Spaniards too: So that the whole countrey of Apalathea is Deserted, some being taken and made slaves, others haveing Gone to dwell among the conqerors. Since which they have begun to fall upon the Tymachaws (a People between us and St. Augustine) being glad that the English will suffer them to fall upon the Spanish Indians, which they could never obtain of the English before these Wars. But as to the Gospellizeing of these Indians, or any others in these parts, I doubt there is little hope: because the Traders, that go among them and converse with them, are so much like hethens themselves. Yet if it should please God to work upon more of these traders, as he has lately done upon one, there might be some hopes of something to be done; if we were with all furnished with Ministers as New-England it. But neither are our circumstances much more encourageing this way, than those of the Indians: but God is able to raise up Instruments for his own work. The Obligations you have laid upon me, and the things contained in your letter to me, have drawn these things from me, who am Your Honors Hulbe Servant. Joseph Lord. Dorchester in Carolina. Mar. 25, 1706 

[In Judge Sweall's writing—"Reed April 19, 1706"]
